---
title: "A structure preserving scheme for a tissue growth model of porous medium type"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2024-ECMTB
venue: "ECMTB 2024"
date: 2024-07-24
location: "Toledo, Spain"
---
13th European conference on Mathematical
and Theoretical Biology, 2024-07-22 - 2024-07-26, Toledo, Spain

第13届关于数学和理论生物学的欧洲会议

**Organizor of a mini-symposium**: Recent developments on
tumor growth models: analysis and simulations

**Mini-symposium abstract**: 
Understanding the mechanisms of tumor growth is a timely and key challenge facing oursociety. Many partial di erential equation models have been proposed to represent variousaspects of tumor growth and therapy since the paper by H. P. Greenspan in 1972. In particular,in a plenary lecture at ICM 2014, B. Perthame reviewed two types of the model, one based onthe uid mechanical aspects and the other one based on the free boundary formulation. In thetalk, B. Perthame marked the connection between the two types of the model by the so-calledHele-Shaw asymptotic.
Such kinds of tumor growth models and simple and easy to be generalized, and thus haveattracted a lot of interest ever since then. A lot of new models have been proposed bygeneralizing the model to include new aspects or to describe new phenomena. This mini-symposium aims to provide a platform to present some newest developments of the tumorgrowth models. New aspects, such as necrotic cores and the heterogeneity inside a tumor,might be considered to construct new models. New numerical methods, which are stable andpreserve the asymptotic relations, might be developed. By gathering junior and seniorresearchers working in the same area but from di erent backgrounds, we aim to spark newcollaborations and o er a platform for scienti c exchange.

**Speaker 1**: PDE models for the spatial spread and evolutionary dynamics of heterogeneous cell population (Tommaso Lorenzi)

**Abstract**: In this talk, PDE models for the spatial spread and evolutionary dynamics of heterogeneous cellpopulations will be considered. In these models, a continuous structuring variable capturesintercellular variability in cell proliferation and migration rates. Analytical and numerical resultssummarising the behavior of the solutions to the model equations will be presented, and theinsights generated by these results into the mechanisms that underpin collective cell migrationwill be brie y discussed.

**Speaker 2**: Tumor growth with a necrotic core as an obstacle problem in pressure (Zhennan Zhou)

**Abstract**: Motivated by the incompressible limit of a cell density model, we propose a free boundarytumor growth model where the pressure satis es an obstacle problem on an evolving domain (t), and the coincidence set (t) captures the emerging necrotic core. We contribute to theanalytical characterization of the solution structure in the following two aspects. By deriving a semi-analytical solution and studying its dynamical behavior, we obtain quantitative transitionalproperties of the solution separating phases in the development of necrotic cores and establishits long time limit with the traveling wave solutions. Also, we prove the existence of travelingwave solutions incorporating non-zero outer densities outside the tumor bulk, provided that thesize of the outer density is below a threshold.

**Speaker 3**: Mathematical problems in a class of tumor growth models (Yu Feng)

**Abstract**: In this talk, I will rst introduce a class of tumor growth models described by porous mediumequations (PME), which possesses a physical parameter m that characterizes the constitutiverelation between cell density and pressure. And, one can obtain a Hele-Shaw type free boundarymodel by taking the incompressible limit (sending m to in nity). We then consider the forwardand inverse problems in these tumor growth models. In the forward problem, we study thetumor boundary instability (the generation of nger-like structure) induced by nutrientconsumption and supply based on the Hele-Shaw type model. While, in the inverse problem, weestablish a Bayesian inversion framework for the PME models that perform uniformly well withrespect to the constitutive relation parameter m.

**Speaker 4**: Structure preserving schemes for tumor growth models
(**Xinran Ruan**)

**Abstract**: Mechanical models of tumor growth based on a porous medium approach have been attractinga lot of interest both analytically and numerically. In this talk, I will show the stability properties,based on which we can further show the asymptotic preserving property, of some nitedi erence scheme for a model where the density evolves down pressure gradients and thegrowth rate depends on the pressure and possibly nutrients.

[报告PPT](http://xinran-ruan.github.io/files/PPT-2024-ECMTB.pdf)